##### Proxy pattern a class functioning as an interface to another thing.

A proxy, in its most general form, is a class functioning as an interface to something else. The proxy could interface to anything: a network connection, a large object in memory, a file, or some other resource that is expensive or impossible to duplicate. In short, a proxy is a wrapper or agent object that is being called by the client to access the real serving object behind the scenes. Use of the proxy can simply be forwarding to the real object, or can provide additional logic. In the proxy extra functionality can be provided, for example caching when operations on the real object are resource intensive, or checking preconditions before operations on the real object are invoked. For the client, usage of a proxy object is similar to using the real object, because both implement the same interface.

#### Rules Of Thumb:
+ In the proxy pattern, one object acts as an interface to another object. The proxy sits between the client of an object and the object itself and protects the access to that object. The proxy pattern is useful when the real subject does something expensive. In web applications, one of the most expensive operations you can do is a network request, so it makes sense to combine HTTP requests as much as possible

+ A proxy object does not add or modify methods to another object (as a decorator would) or simplify the interface of another object (as a facade would do). It implements the exact same interface as the real subject does and passes on method invocations made on it to the real subject.
+ A remote proxy is used to access an object in a different environment. With Java, this could mean an object in a different virtual machine, or an object on a computer on the other side of the world. The remote object is usually persistent; it is accessible at any time from any other environment. This type of proxy is difficult to translate to JavaScript. You can use remote proxy for cache reasons in javascript.
+ A protection proxy is also hard to translate into JavaScript. In other languages, it is typically used to control access to certain methods based on who the client is. Let’s say you add a few methods to the PublicLibrary class. These would be methods for adding books to and removing books from the catalog. In Java you could use a protection proxy to restrict access to these methods to clients of a particular type, say Librarian. No other type of client would be able to invoke these methods. In JavaScript, you can’t determine the type of the client that made a particular method call, which makes this particular pattern impossible to implement.
+ The virtual proxy is an optimization pattern. If you have a class or object that has a computationally intensive constructor or uses large amounts of memory to store its data, and you don’t need to access the data immediately after instantiation, a virtual proxy should be used to defer the setup costs until the data is needed. It can also provide a type of “Loading...” message while the setup is taking place, allowing you to maintain a responsive user interface and avoid having a blank page with no feedback telling the user what is happening.

#### Nice articles:
+ https://www.joezimjs.com/javascript/javascript-design-patterns-proxy/
+ https://narayanatechnicalworld.blogspot.gr/2016/05/proxies-in-typescript.html
